Adding LXC section for Rockchip VPU HWA Tutorial (#1190)
jellyfin/jellyfin.org: docs/general/administration/hardware-acceleration/rockchip.md

### Configure With Linux Virtualization

> Before proceeding, please complete **steps 2 and 5** in the [Configure on Linux Host](#configure-on-linux-host) section above. That should be the case as for docker so for LXC container setup!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before proceeding, please complete **steps 2 and 5** in the [Configure on Linux Host](#configure-on-linux-host) section above. This applies to both Docker and LXC setups.
```

Before proceeding, please complete **steps 2 and 5** in the [Configure on Linux Host](#configure-on-linux-host) section above.

:::warning

That should be the case as for docker so for LXC container setup!

:::

> 

Reviewer: Doesn't have to be admonition

Author: Removed admonition as seen in the diff

3. Enable RKMPP in Jellyfin and uncheck the unsupported codecs.

#### LXC (Linux Containers)

This setup might be useful for those, who use RK3588/3588S SoC as [Proxmox](https://www.proxmox.com/en/) host, where LXC is the official and the only supported way of doing lightweight virtualiztion with the help of system containers (LXC) vs application containers (docker). As of today Proxmox team does not support ARM platforms as hosts - and probably will never do - however successful deployments on ARM devices [are possible](https://github.com/jiangcuo/Proxmox-Port?tab=readme-ov-file).

LXC setup idea is a bit similar to docker - you need to pass the **device files** of VPU from host to LXC and enable the **privileged mode** (see also important "_note_" below about privileged LXC containers).
1. To find the list of device files to pass inside container, use the next one-liner in Linux host:

```shell
for dev in dri dma_heap mali0 rga mpp_service iep mpp-service vpu_service vpu-service hevc_service hevc-service rkvdec rkvenc vepu h265e ; do [ -e "/dev/$dev" ] && echo "device /dev/$dev";  done
device /dev/dri
device /dev/dma_heap
device /dev/mali0
device /dev/rga

> device /dev/mpp_service

Reviewer: are these lines supposed to be the output of the command above? If they are please separate them into their own code block

Author: Yes, of course. Please, refine this section, if that is still not good enough after the changes.
I personally don't like idea of command input/output separation into different code blocks, since readability is affected.

If you want - and you have concerns about it - you can replace _lxc.cgroup2.devices.allow: a_ rule with more restricted "_allowlist device program_" (example could be found inside the same man page) enumerating each character VPU device, that container namespace should have access inside the host.

:::warning

Privileged LXC containers are considered unsafe by design - read more [here](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxc/security/). This guide however does not cover steps required to make jellyfin VPU hardware acceleration working in unprivileged container.

:::

2. Install supported [jellyfin package](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/installation/linux) into LXC container or optionally you can even use an official docker image inside LXC container.
3. Verify OpenCL runtime status as following - example is collected from LXC runtime of Ubuntu Jammy - steps are the same as docker deployments:
 - libmali user-space drivers should be installed inside LXC container, otherwise opencl=ocl@rk device won't be initialized

> ```shell
> root@jellyfin:~# dpkg -l | egrep "libmali|clinfo|jellyfin"
> ii  clinfo                          3.0.21.02.21-1                          arm64        Query OpenCL system information
> ii  jellyfin                        10.9.11+ubu2204                         all          Jellyfin is the Free Software Media System.
> ii  jellyfin-ffmpeg6                6.0.1-8-jammy                           arm64        Tools for transcoding, streaming and playing of multimedia files
> ii  jellyfin-server                 10.10.0+ubu2204                         arm64        Jellyfin is the Free Software Media System.
> ii  jellyfin-web                    10.10.0+ubu2204                         all          Jellyfin is the Free Software Media System.
> ii  libmali-valhall-g610-g13p0-gbm  1.9-1                                   arm64        Mali GPU User-Space Binary Drivers
> 
> root@jellyfin:~# /usr/lib/jellyfin-ffmpeg/ffmpeg -v debug -init_hw_device rkmpp=rk -init_hw_device opencl=ocl@rk
> ffmpeg version 6.0.1-Jellyfin Copyright (c) 2000-2023 the FFmpeg developers
>   built with gcc 11 (Ubuntu 11.4.0-1ubuntu1~22.04)
>   configuration: --prefix=/usr/lib/jellyfin-ffmpeg --target-os=linux --extra-version=Jellyfin --disable-doc --disable-ffplay --disable-ptx-compression --disable-static --disable-libxcb --disable-sdl2 --disable-xlib --enable-lto --enable-gpl --enable-version3 --enable-shared --enable-gmp --enable-gnutls --enable-chromaprint --enable-opencl --enable-libdrm --enable-libxml2 --enable-libass --enable-libfreetype --enable-libfribidi --enable-libfontconfig --enable-libbluray --enable-libmp3lame --enable-libopus --enable-libtheora --enable-libvorbis --enable-libopenmpt --enable-libdav1d --enable-libsvtav1 --enable-libwebp --enable-libvpx --enable-libx264 --enable-libx265 --enable-libzvbi --enable-libzimg --enable-libfdk-aac --arch=arm64 --cross-prefix=/usr/bin/aarch64-linux-gnu- --toolchain=hardened --enable-cross-compile --enable-rkmpp --enable-rkrga

Reviewer 2: The ffmpeg banner is useless here. And your jellyfin-ffmpeg version is outdated.

```suggestion
```shell
root@jellyfin:~# dpkg -l | egrep "libmali|clinfo|jellyfin"
ii  clinfo                          3.0.21.02.21-1                          arm64        Query OpenCL system information
ii  jellyfin                        10.10.1+ubu2204                         all          Jellyfin is the Free Software Media System.
ii  jellyfin-ffmpeg7                7.0.2-5-jammy                           arm64        Tools for transcoding, streaming and playing of multimedia files
ii  jellyfin-server                 10.10.1+ubu2204                         arm64        Jellyfin is the Free Software Media System.
ii  jellyfin-web                    10.10.1+ubu2204                         all          Jellyfin is the Free Software Media System.
ii  libmali-valhall-g610-g13p0-gbm  1.9-1                                   arm64        Mali GPU User-Space Binary Drivers
```

```shell
root@jellyfin:~# /usr/lib/jellyfin-ffmpeg/ffmpeg -v debug -init_hw_device rkmpp=rk -init_hw_device opencl=ocl@rk
```

Author: Thank you for comment about using outdated _jellyfin-ffmpeg_ version - I did not even realize it.

...

arm_release_ver: g13p0-01eac0, rk_so_ver: 10
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] 1 OpenCL platforms found.
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] 1 OpenCL devices found on platform "ARM Platform".
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] 0.0: ARM Platform / Mali-G610 r0p0
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] cl_arm_import_memory found as platform extension.
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] cl_khr_image2d_from_buffer found as platform extension.
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] DRM to OpenCL mapping on ARM function found (clImportMemoryARM).
Successfully parsed a group of options.
...

> ```

Reviewer: please remove the prompts from the commands, and separate the commands themselves and the output of the commands into separate code blocks

Author: Also done. Please, refine if still required.

> 3. Enable RKMPP in Jellyfin GUI, check supported (and desired) codecs and uncheck the unsupported - see "**Select SoC/VPU Hardware**" section for more details.

Reviewer: a link to the select soc/vpu hardware section would be appreciated

Author: I will need some help with Markdown Heading Anchors - was not able to make it working so far:
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6695439/how-to-link-to-a-named-anchor-in-multimarkdown

Author: Works...

3. Enable RKMPP in Jellyfin and uncheck the unsupported codecs.

> #### Non-official LXC (Linux Containers)

Reviewer: Simply "LXC" should be fine

Author: OK, done.

This setup might be useful for those, who use RK3588/3588S SoC as [Proxmox](https://www.proxmox.com/en/) host, where LXC is the official and the only supported way of doing lightweight virtualiztion with the help of system containers (LXC) vs application containers (docker). As of today Proxmox team does not support ARM platforms as hosts - and probably will never do - however successful deployments on ARM devices [are possible](https://github.com/jiangcuo/Proxmox-Port?tab=readme-ov-file).

LXC setup idea is a bit similar to docker - you need to pass the **device files** of VPU from host to LXC and enable the **privileged mode** (see also important "_note_" below about privileged LXC containers).
1. To find the list of device files to pass inside container, use the next one-liner in Linux host:

```

> root@pve:~# for dev in dri dma_heap mali0 rga mpp_service iep mpp-service vpu_service vpu-service hevc_service hevc-service rkvdec rkvenc vepu h265e ; do [ -e "/dev/$dev" ] && echo "device /dev/$dev";  done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for dev in dri dma_heap mali0 rga mpp_service iep mpp-service vpu_service vpu-service hevc_service hevc-service rkvdec rkvenc vepu h265e ; do [ -e "/dev/$dev" ] && echo "device /dev/$dev";  done
```
please do not include the prompt.
If this requires root privileges please include sudo in the command as well

Author: OK, noted. In this example _root_ privileges are not required.

device /dev/dri
device /dev/dma_heap
device /dev/mali0
device /dev/rga
device /dev/mpp_service
```

Example of the minumum requried extra (not full) container configuration to make VPU hardware accelearion working is presented below:

```
lxc.mount.entry: /dev/dri dev/dri none bind,optional,create=dir
lxc.mount.entry: /dev/dma_heap dev/dma_heap none bind,optional,create=dir
lxc.mount.entry: /dev/mpp_service dev/mpp_service none bind,optional,create=file
lxc.mount.entry: /dev/rga dev/rga none bind,optional,create=file
lxc.mount.entry: /dev/mali0 dev/mali0 none bind,optional,create=file
lxc.cgroup2.devices.allow: a
```

Use [lxc.container.conf](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxc/manpages//man5/lxc.container.conf.5.html) man page for reference, what _lxc.mount.entry_ and _lxc.cgroup2.devices_ options are used for.
If you want - and you have concerns about it - you can replace _lxc.cgroup2.devices.allow: a_ rule with more restricted "_allowlist device program_" (example could be found inside the same man page) enumerating each character VPU device, that container namespace should have access inside the host.

> :::note

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::warning
```

Privileged LXC containers are considered unsafe by design - read more [here](https://linuxcontainers.org/lxc/security/). This guide however does not cover steps required to make jellyfin VPU hardware acceleration working in unprivileged container.

:::

> 2. Install [jellyfin package](https://jellyfin.org/docs/general/installation/linux) for your Linux flavor into LXC container or optionally you can even use an official docker image inside LXC container.

Reviewer: Please use debian or ubuntu. Those are the only distros where official packages are provided

Author: Updated/rephrased as well.

> 3. Verify OpenCL runtime status as following - example is collected from LXC runtime of Ubuntu Jammy - steps are literally the same as in case of docker deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Verify OpenCL runtime status as following - example is collected from LXC runtime of Ubuntu Jammy - steps are the same as docker deployments:
```
Are the steps of the verify on linux section insufficient?

Author: In fact Mali GPU user-space drivers should be installed only in the runtime, where OpenCL-based HDR tone-mapping is required - it could be host or docker or LXC - depending where you try to enable/configure RKMPP hardware acceleration.

For example I completely removed **libmali** package from the host and still LXC container can access OpenCL runtime via /dev/mali0 device. Opposite is not True - if I remove **libmali** package from LXC container and install it into Debian host, access to OpenCL runtime from container does not work, however it works as it should from the host itself.

I see in this tutorial information, that ARM Mali OpenCL runtime (libmali) should be installed on host in case of docker virtualization (step 5) - I can neither agree or disagree with that - however for LXC case this step is not required as soon as you don't plan using RKMPP HWA directly in the host.

...

arm_release_ver: g13p0-01eac0, rk_so_ver: 10
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] 1 OpenCL platforms found.
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] 1 OpenCL devices found on platform "ARM Platform".
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] 0.0: ARM Platform / Mali-G610 r0p0
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] cl_arm_import_memory found as platform extension.
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] cl_khr_image2d_from_buffer found as platform extension.
[AVHWDeviceContext @ 0x55a5b30a00] DRM to OpenCL mapping on ARM function found (clImportMemoryARM).
Successfully parsed a group of options.
...
```

> 3. Enable RKMPP in Jellyfin and uncheck the unsupported codecs

Reviewer: should also mention to check the supported codecs

Author: Also done with some extra modifications.

> 

Reviewer: why is there 2 blank lines?

Author: Those are just for indent before the next section.
